---
layout: post
title: HoWSC 8 | DK Savage
image: /assets/img/howsc-images/8-dk-savage.png
topic: humans-of-wsc
---

### HoWSC 8 | DK Savage

In more recent years, I have had several people come up to me and tell me that
they are slightly amazed by my fearlessness - in particular how ‘out and proud’
I am, but also how little I care about other people’s thoughts of me.

Here’s the thing - I wasn’t always like this. I used to clog up my existence
with layers and layers of filters, trying to tone down who I was. When it came
to my personality, the volume was at a thousandth of what it is now. When it
came to my identity, it was on mute. No matter the country, no matter the
culture, no matter the language, schools all over the world are united by how
they force students into their cocoons - making them feel they have to build a
barrier round themselves, and fade into the walls. We’ve all been there.

When I first competed in WSC, in 2014, I was shown that you could have so, so
much more fun, and be so, so much more free, if you let the weight of people’s
judgements evaporate from your shoulders. Sitting there in the Scholar’s Bowl,
watching a blurring line of 11-year-olds and 18-year-olds pushing past anyone
and anything, simply to get a brightly-coloured stuffed animal, I realised that
nobody in that room cared about anything in that moment, except for what colour
Jerry they would be bringing home that night (okay - and maybe the number of
medals and trophies, too).

When I attended my first Global Round and, later that year, my first Tournament
of Champions, WSC taught me, more than anything, that I could let go of all my
cares, and stop worrying about how I present myself. Because, at the end of the
day, the best version anyone can be of themself, is the most real one.

I brought home from TOC, along with a new Alpaca, and very few (if any) medals,
a newfound sense of peace, and freedom. With time, I allowed myself to stop
feeling the pressure of having to be “cool” or liked by the masses, and started
to figure out who I was, who I wanted to be, and who would continue to be by my
side, however much I changed.

WSC, for me, has always been more about the community than the competition. Ok -
it is a great feeling to go home feeling the weight of medals on your neck and
trophies in your hands, but that’s always been an added bonus. Just being there,
surrounded by the ‘odd-ones-out’ of hundreds of schools, not having to worry
about being an ‘odd-one-out’ there, will always be a feeling I adore.

I have competed in this competition every single year since I was old enough to,
and will continue to compete until I graduate school. I cannot begin to explain
how heartbreaking it will be to sit in the closing ceremony for the last time,
for WSC has been such an important part of my life for coming up to five years,
now.

It was with the courage that WSC gave to me that, quite a few years ago now, I
first came out, and I am eternally grateful to the competition, and the
participants, for giving me a community to feel safe in and the courage it would
take to open up about parts of me I thought would remain secrets forever. I feel
extremely honoured and overwhelmed by the number of people from the competition
who have contacted me asking for advice about sexuality and gender identity.
Four or so years ago, I was the person reaching out to others about all that.
WSC has helped me so much to find out how to be comfortable with myself, and how
to be confident in myself and my identity. Since that first Bangkok regionals
all the way back before I started listening to good music, my life has been
changed for the better.

_Tell us your story - apply now by emailing
[onepwaa@gmail.com](mailto:onepwaa@gmail.com)!_
