---
layout: post
title: HoWSC 11 | Ellen Ng
image: /assets/img/howsc-images/11-ellen-ng.png
topic: humans-of-wsc
---

### HoWSC 11 | Ellen Ng

When I think of the World Scholar's Cup, I don't think about my medals, my
trophies or my achievements, instead I think about a group of strangers, dancing
under an iridescent display of lights, a new found confidence flooding over me
and as we exit the room we emerge as a group of friends. I think about the pride
i feel for my friends as their eyes glistened with tears of happiness and ran
towards the stage with a blanket of cheers behind them. I think about the
friends I got to make, how the world has now become more interconnected because
of this program and how i got to learn about multiple cultures through several
friendships and how it has broaden my horizon.

4 years ago, I took a chance, shyly signing up for WSC and ended up returning
every year to experience once again the best moments of my life. What's special
about this program, is how everyone is welcomed. When you're a scholar, old or
new, you feel a sense of belonging and welcoming during the competition and that
sense of belonging stays with you every season. There are a lot of things that
we all can take differently from this program, but yet we all leave with new
memories and friendships.

​I'm grateful for WSC as it allowed me to open up to more people, pursue my
interests and pushed me to break new barriers. For example joining the talent
show, I shakily stepped up onto the stage, wiping my clammy hands on my dress,
but when I looked up to my friends and the community i call my family, my heart
was flooded with happiness and contempt and I had this newfound bravery. Every
year, I look forward to the WSC rounds because I know that I will meet new
friends, make new experiences and make new memories. So, all I want to say, to
every scholar, old or new, to my friends and to the WSC staff, thank you from
the bottom of my heart. :)

_Tell us your story - apply now by emailing
[onepwaa@gmail.com](mailto:onepwaa@gmail.com)!_
