---
layout: post
title: Preview to a World on the Margins
image: /assets/img/1p-curriculum-predictions_1_orig.jpg
topic: deep-dives
---

### Preview to a World on the Margins

_UPDATE: The new theme for World Scholar’s 2019 has long since been released,
and we’re sure everyone had curriculum sneak-peeks at the very top of their
Christmas list to Santa. Well, your wish has been delivered (albeit being a few
days late)- here are our predictions for the themes and topics for the season,
from our very own Scholar, Sophia!_

We here at OnePwaa are very excited about the release of next year's curriculum.
So we speculated about it.

I believe that the theme of ‘A World on the Margins’ suggests a few things,
centering around the theme that our world is hovering on the edge of extinction
with commonly known political tensions, such as recently between China and
Canada, nuclear disputes, and global warming, the world is definitely
precariously balancing on the margin of a page. Our world is as close to
midnight on the Doomsday Clock as it has ever been, at two minutes to midnight,
the threat of our world falling off the page comes closer into view. Our world
is teetering on the thin edge, the margin, of a sheet of paper, and it could go
two ways, we could be about to fall back into the realms of the regular white
cartridge, or plummet right off the margin into the chasms of chaos, death, and
destruction.

‘A World on the Margins’ is most likely to have a theme around extinction:
extinction of our world, extinction of humanity, extinction of all things as we
know it. From failed peace measures to Neo-nazism groups on the rise, from new
cultures taking place of old ones to the fall of religious thinking, the world
can be on a margin in countless possible ways. Perhaps it could be about Science
being on the brink of new discoveries, ones unlike what the world has seen
before, such as the supposed genetically designed babies in China, how these
advances could be seen as immoral and how the world is about to fall of the
page, or if you take it the other way, the world is about to advance further
than what has ever been seen on a regular sheet of paper before. If a doctor
genetically designed embryos to not have HIV from HIV positive parents, then the
world is not falling of a margin, however if Daniel genetically engineers
embryos to take delight in digesting pineapple on pizza, then we have gone back
to the world being on a margin of pure horror once again.

The margin of a page is a small, thin, unimportant section of the page which no
writing ever goes into, which slips beyond the majority of our viewpoints. In
this way, ‘A World on the Margins’ could possibly be slightly less dramatic than
the nuclear warfare of above, and could be pointing us towards what often goes
unnoticed, what slips beyond most of our viewpoints, such as micro-sized
objects, or minority groups that are ignored by hegemonies, or even something as
obscure as the psychology of obvious truths we tend to ignore. One thing that
may or may not have slipped past most of your viewpoints and settled in the
margins of your world, is how for the past few years all the themes have been
‘A(n) **\_\_\_** World’, however this year it has gone back to the old previous
format of ‘A World **\*\***\_\_**\*\***’, which gives us a substantial amount of
evidence to presume some old things, perhaps subjects, ideas, may be repeating
themselves or coming back.

A margin is the edge of a page, the limitation of what you can write, where you
can go, so above all, ‘A World on the Margins’ could be referring to the
extinction of our limitations, not ignoring what we previously have been
ignoring, going further than you have ever gone before in every single way, how
we should ignore the margins of a page, expand our mind to all possibilities and
ideas that this theme could suggest, and then, perhaps there will be no margins
for this world.

\*Please note that this blog post is merely based on our predictions and
opinions and is not an official announcement of the curriculum content of ‘A
World on the Margins’. Stay tuned for our Deep Dives once the official subject
outlines have been released on the WSC website and Facebook page!

<br>
